# SWDOCKP2 x86 Example
## 1. Introduction
This repository contains a `SWDOCKP2` computational example for docking 296 db2 hierarchies against four conformations of SARS-CoV-2 Main Protease (PDB IDs: 5RFE, 5RHB, 7AR5, 7GF2) on x86 platforms.

The four target conformations can be downloaded from www.rcsb.org for visualization purposes. The pre-generated scoring grids and matching spheres are stored in the `dockfiles` directory.

The ligand db2 files are provided in transposed `.xz` format, as described in [1]. The raw db2 files and the optimized ones (after sorting and merging conformations) are named `xaaaaaa.000.block.xz` and `xaaaaaa.000.db2.gz.opt.block.xz`, respectively.

Two x86 versions of `SWDOCKP2` are available: a four-target (`swdockp2_v4`) and an eight-target (`swdockp2_v8`) version, named based on the maximum number of targets supported for parallel processing. Examples for both versions are included.

## 2. Usage of SWDOCKP2 x86
The usage of both versions is similar. Below, the `v4` version is used as an example for demonstration.

### 2.1 Prerequisites
- `glibc` >= `2.28`
- `mpich` >= `4.2.0`

### 2.2 Run SWDOCKP2
Change to the `v4` working directory:
```bash
cd docking/v4
```
Then execute the script `run_dock.sh` to start docking, whose content is: 
```bash
#!/bin/bash
lib_path=$(readlink -f ../../lib)
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$lib_path # Linking required dynamic libraries
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=${num_threads}

ulimit -s unlimited # unlimit the stack usage (recommended)
mpirun -np ${num_proc} ../../bin/swdockp2_v4
```
Users can configure the number of MPI processes (specified by `${num_proc}`) and threads (specified by `${num_threads}`) based on the available computing resources.

In our testing scenario with 16 threads on a single MPI process, the program may consume up to approximately 4 GB of stack memory. To prevent segmentation faults, it is advisable to execute the `ulimit -s unlimited` command to remove stack size restrictions.

**Important Note:** The value of `${num_threads}` should be set to **1, 4, 16, or 64**. Using a value that is not a power of 4 or exceeds 64 may result in unanticipated errors.

## 3. Input and Output
### 3.1 Input
The working directory should include the following input files:

| Filename | Content |
| -------- | ------- |
| `INDOCK` | Docking parameters, which encompass the paths to all energy grids and matching spheres. |
| `split_database_index` | Paths to all input db2 `.xz` files. Each line contains a single file path. |
| `split_database_nums` | The number of blocks for each input db2 `.xz` file. Each line should contain a single number, corresponding to the file paths in split_database_index in the same order. You can use the command `xz -l <path/to/your/xz>` to determine the number of blocks in any `.xz` file. |

### 3.2 Output
| Filename | Content |
| -------- | ------- |
| `xOUTDOCK` | Docking scores generated by process *x*. |
| `xmpro_rec_y.mol2.gz` | Docking poses in the `.mol2` format for target *y*, produced by process *x*. The order of these poses corresponds to that in `xOUTDOCK`. |

## 4. Performance Assessment
The processing time is output to both `xOUTDOCK` and the standard output (`stdout`).

When multiple MPI processes are utilized, the time cost of each process may vary because of the task allocation strategy employed by `SWDOCKP2`. The specific wall time for process *x* is presented at the end of the `xOUTDOCK` file, followed by the total elapsed time for all processes to termicate.

The time taken for loading ligands, performing minimization, and the entire searching procedure for all processes is printed to `stdout` in the order in which the processes terminate.

## 5. Reference
[1] Xu, K., Zhang, J., Duan, X., Wan, X., Huang, N., Schmidt, B., Liu, W., & Yang, G. (2022). Redesigning and Optimizing UCSF DOCK3.7 on Sunway TaihuLight. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 33(12), 4458–4471. https://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2022.3194916
